
About this Tutorial

Google Earth Enterprise Fusion is designed for organizations that want
to display their own geospatial data in Google Earth and Google Maps.
You can use it to create graphically rich geographic information
system (GIS) databases for distribution to your customers or in-house
end users. With Google Earth Enterprise Fusion, you can integrate your
own geospatial data, publish it to the Google Earth Enterprise Server,
and view it using Google Earth Enterprise Client (EC), the Google Maps
API, or the Google Earth API.

Before you begin working with real data in Google Earth Enterprise
Fusion, it is important for you to familiarize yourself with the
process of defining and building different types of data. This
tutorial provides a series of exercises that you can perform in an
environment where it is all right to make mistakes. Once you start
working with real data, it will be more difficult to correct mistakes,
so please take your time working through the tutorial until you feel
comfortable with Google Earth Enterprise Fusion.

The Basic Tasks section of this tutorial guides you through building a
Google Earth Enterprise Fusion database from raw source material and
publishing it using the Google Earth Enterprise Server, using the
tutorial files provided on the Google Earth Enterprise Fusion
installation DVD.

Note: Work through the first five lessons in order.

The Advanced Tasks section of this tutorial guides you through more
advanced topics. You can work through the advanced lessons in any
order you wish. Alternatively, you can skip the Advanced Tasks section
until you want to learn about something new. Then, you can come back
to the tutorial and work through the lessons of your choice.

-[ Audience ]-

This guide is intended for individuals who are new to Google Earth
Enterprise Fusion. It assumes that you have some familiarity with GIS
data and have used a Google Earth client, but have no familiarity with
this application. It also assumes that Google Earth Enterprise Fusion,
the Google Earth Enterprise Server, and Google Earth EC have been
installed either on a network drive accessible to you or on your local
workstation. If any of those three applications are not installed,
contact your system administrator or refer to

Installation overview for GEE

.

-[ In This Guide ]-

This guide provides five basic lessons and nine advanced lessons.

-[ Basic Tasks ]-

The Basic Tasks section includes:

Setting Up the Tutorial

Defining and Building Resources

Defining and Building Projects

Defining and Building Databases

Pushing, Publishing, and Viewing a Database

-[ Advanced Tasks ]-

The Advanced Tasks section includes:

Configuring Display Rules for Point Data

Configuring Display Rules for Polygon Data

Importing and Exporting Style Templates

Specifying Search Fields for Individual Layers

Configuring a Searchable Database

Creating a Map Database

Creating Imagery Mosaics

Segmenting Large Imagery Files

Building a Historical Imagery Project

Appendix A:


Sample Data Files

 provides a list of all of the sample data files included when you
install the tutorial data.
