
Creating a Map Database

In addition to using Google Earth Enterprise Fusion to prepare and
publish data in Google Earth, you can use it to prepare and publish
data in Google Maps. Map data can be published with Google Earth
Enterprise Fusion using Plate Carrée (EPSG: 4326) and Mercator (EPSG:
3857) projections, and is referred to hereafter as a

map layer

,

map project

, and

map database

.

This lesson defines, builds, and publishes a Mercator map database and
it also demonstrates how you can add an imagery project of

flat or Plate Carrée-based

 imagery resources. When you publish the Mercator map database, the
flat imagery is then projected as

Mercator on the Fly

. This feature converts a Plate Carrée-based imagery resource into a
Mercator-based imagery resource when you define your Mercator map
database. When hosted on GEE Server, the server requests the

Mercator on the Fly

 imagery resource in the database and serves it with a Mercator
projection.

The option to project

Mercator on the Fly

 enables you to reuse existing flat imagery resources for all your
database types, including Mercator map databases, thereby saving you
the task of creating and storing Mercator imagery resources. For more
information, see

Add flat imagery to Mercator map databases in GEE 5.1.0

.

Note: As an alternative to your own imagery resources, you can use
  the Google Base Map in place of an imagery project. See

  Using the Google Base Map

   for more details.

The first step in preparing any data for publication is to import the
source data as Google Earth Enterprise Fusion resources. You can use
one of the vector resources you defined in

Defining and Building Resources

 for Google Maps.

After you define your vector resources, you must define and build at
least one map layer for each map project. The first exercise in this
lesson,

Define a Map Layer

, describes how to do so.

The remaining steps are similar to defining, building, pushing, and
publishing other databases that you have also created for viewing in
Google Earth EC.

Define a Map Layer

Define a Map Project

Define a Flat Imagery Project

Define, Push, and Publish a Map Database

View Your Map Database

Using the Google Base Map

-[ Define a Map Layer ]-

Defining a map layer consists of adding resources to the layer and
defining the display rules and filters for the layer. This is similar
to the process of defining display rules and filters for a vector
project destined for Google Earth EC.

-[ To define a map layer ]-

Select Asset Manager from the Tools menu. The Asset Manager appears.

Select Mercator Map Tools (2D) from the drop-down menu.

Click image1. The Map Layer Editor appears.  image2  The legend area
displays the current value of each property you can set for the map
layer. The top row lists the names of the locales you support. When
you first open this dialog for a new map layer, only the default
locale and its values appear, and the box next to Hide unspecialized
locales is checked. Google Maps uses the default locale settings when
you do not specify different settings for a user’s locale in this tab.

Set the property values for the default locale as follows:  Click the
icon in the Icon field, select places3_new, and click OK. This is the
icon that appears next to the name of the map layer in the Layers
panel of Google Maps.  Click in the Name field, enter CAfreeways, and
press Enter to save the change. This is the text label that appears in
the Layers panel of Google Maps.  For Initial State, accept the
default setting, Off. This setting determines whether the map layer is
turned on or off in Google Maps.

Click Add Resource.

Navigate to the ASSET_ROOT/Resources/Vector folder.

Select CAHighways, and click Open. The CAHighways resource appears on
the resource list.

Select default select all under the resource name.  The Feature and
Filter tabs appear on the right. The first option on the Feature tab
is Draw Features As. This option allows you to specify the display
rules for the selected resource. The value you set for Draw Features
As determines the options available for you to specify.  In this
lesson, you define display rules for label only.

For Draw Features As, select Lines. The Lines options appear.

Under Line, accept the default visibility range for the lines, 8 and
14.

For Color, set it to orange.

For Line Width, accept the default, 2.

Check the box next to Label.

Under Label, accept the default setting on the drop-down list, Text.

Click Label Format Open. The Label Format dialog appears.  The Insert
Field drop-down list contains the names of all fields in your source
data.

Select NAME, and click OK.  In the source file for the selected
resource, the Name column lists the names of the roads, so when you
select the Name field here, the names of the roads are displayed in
Google Maps.

For the label, change the visibility range to 10 through 14.  The
visibility range refers to the zoom level at which your labels are
visible in Google Maps.

The default text style is black on white in the Sans 12 font. Click
the text style button (labeled Sans/12) to specify a different text
style for the labels.  The Text Style dialog appears.

For Size, change the value to 10, and accept the default setting for
Color, black.  In version 3.0 and beyond, only one font and style is
provided, Sans regular. However, you can create a configuration file
in which you can specify additional fonts, if desired. Refer to the
Administration Guide for details.  A preview of the label appears in
the Preview box.

Drag the preview over any button on the left. The new style is stored
on that button. The button name reflects the font and font size of the
style, and it appears with the selected color and outline attributes.
After you save a style to a button, you can simply click that button
to automatically select its text style settings for another label in
the future.

Click OK. You return to the Map Layer Editor, and the Feature tab
shows all of your selections.  image4

Select Save from the File menu.

Navigate to the ASSET_ROOT/MapLayers folder.

In the Name field, enter SFMapLayer, and click Save. The new map layer
name appears in the Asset Manager’s asset list.

-[ Define a Map Project ]-

The first step in defining a map project is to specify which map
layers to include and give the project a name. Before you define a map
project, however, add a subfolder to the asset navigation tree in the
Asset Manager in which you can store your map projects.

-[ To add a subfolder for map projects ]-

Select Asset Manager from the Tools menu. The Asset Manager appears.

Right-click Projects in the asset navigation tree, and select New
Subfolder. The New Subfolder dialog appears.

Enter Map in the Folder Name field, and click OK. The new Map
subfolder appears under Projects in the asset navigation tree.

-[ To create a map project ]-

In the Asset Manager, click image5. The Map Project Editor appears.

Click image6. The Open dialog appears.

Navigate to the ASSET_ROOT/MapLayersfolder.

Select SFMapLayer, the map layer you created in the previous exercise,
and click Open. SFMapLayer appears in the Map Project Editor.  The
default legend name of the map layer, CAFreeways, appears in the
Legend Name column, followed by <DEFAULT>, which indicates that this
is the name you specified for the legend when you created the layer.
The name and path of the map layer appears in the Layer column.

Double-click CAFreeways. The Layer Legend dialog displays the current
values for the map layer.  image7

Double-click the name field, change the name to California Freeways,
press Enter to save the change, and click OK.  The new legend name
appears in the Map Project Editor. Notice that <DEFAULT> no longer
appears after the legend name. (If you want to return to the default
name, right-click California Freeways in the Legend Name field, and
select Use Layer Defaults from the context menu.)

Select File > Save.

Navigate to the ASSET_ROOT/Projects/Mapfolder.

In the Name field, enter SFMapProject, and click Save. The new map
project name appears in the Asset Manager’s asset list.

-[ Define a Flat Imagery Project ]-

The maps layer includes Google Maps layers and uses the Google Maps
API from google.com. Map databases use either Plate Carrée (EPSG:
4326) or Mercator (EPSG: 3857) projections and normally require
corresponding imagery resource types. In this lesson you add a flat
imagery project from a previous tutorial lesson to a Mercator map
database, which can then be projected as

Mercator on the Fly

. For more information, see

Add flat imagery to Mercator map databases in GEE 5.1.0

Tip: If you did not complete the tutorial lesson to create an
  imagery project, see

  Define an Imagery Project

Select Asset Manager from the Tools menu. The Asset Manager appears.

Select Mercator Map Tools (2D). The tools for Mercator maps appear in
the toolbar.

Click image8. The Mercator Imagery Resource Editor appears with no
resources selected. image9

Click the Add button. The Open Source dialog opens to the
/opt/google/share/tutorials/fusion/Imagery folder. image10

Select source file usgsLanSat.tif, and click the Open button.

Enter today's date for Acquisition Date

Select USGS Imagery for Provider

Enter 2 for Tolerance

Select File > Save and navigate to the /ASSET_ROOT/Resources/Imagery
folder.

Enter the name SFBayAreaLanSat_Merc, and click Save.

Select File > Close

Repeat steps 3 through 11 for the table that follows:

          Name (Resources/Imagery/...)  Acquisition Date  Provider
Mask  Source File  BlueMarble_Merc  Today's date  NASA Imagery  No
Mask  bluemarble_4km.tif  i3_15Meter_Merc  Today's date  i3  Auto Mask
Default values  i3SF15-meter.tif  SFHighResInset_Merc  Today's date
USGS Imagery  Auto Mask Default values  usgsSFHiRes.tif

Click image11. The Mercator Imagery Project Editor appears with no
resources selected. image12

Click image13. The Open dialog appears.

Select SFBayAreaLanSat_Merc, and click Open.

Repeat steps 14 and 15 for Named entries in the above table.

Select File > Save and navigate to the /ASSET_ROOT/Projects/Imagery
folder.

Enter the name SFBayAreaMercator, and click Save.

-[ Define, Push, and Publish a Map Database ]-

Select Asset Manager from the Tools menu. The Asset Manager appears.

Select Mercator Map Tools (2D). The tools for Mercator maps appear in
the toolbar.

Click image14. The Map Database Editor appears with no projects
selected.  Mercator Maps Database Editor

Click image16 next to Map Project. The Open Asset dialog appears.

Navigate to the ASSET_ROOT/Projects/Mapfolder.

Select SFMapProject, and click Open. The SF Map Project appears in the
Map Database Editor next to Map Project.

Click image17 next to Imagery Project. The Open Asset dialog appears.

Navigate to the ASSET_ROOT/Projects/Imageryfolder.  Notice that Type
is set to Mercator Imagery Project and only the Mercator imagery
project(s) you have built are listed.

Select SFBayAreaMercator, and click Open. The SF Bay Area Mercator
imagery project appears in the Map Database Editor next to Imagery
Project.  Both map and Mercator imagery projects appear on the list.

Select File > Save.

Navigate to the ASSET_ROOT/Databases folder.

In the Name field, enter SFMapDatabase, and click Save.  In the Asset
Manager, the new map database appears, along with the other databases
you have created. Notice that the Category column distinguishes
between Google Earth databases and Google Maps database.

Right-click SFMapDatabase and select Build from the context menu. The
status of the database immediately changes to Waiting or Queued and
then to In Progress.  It might take a while to build the map database,
because it is also building the project.  When Google Earth Enterprise
Fusion finishes building the database, its Current State column in the
Asset Manager changes to Succeeded, and its Current Version column
changes to the date and time the most recent build was started.

-[ Push a Map Database to Google Earth Enterprise Server ]-

-[ To push a map database: ]-

Right-click the name of the map database you built in the previous
exercise, and select Push from the context menu. The Push Database
dialog appears.  image18

Click the Push button.  Google Earth Enterprise Fusion pushes the
database to the Google Earth Enterprise Server, and displays a success
message when it is done.  If you get an error message, contact your
Google Earth Enterprise Server administrator for help, or check the
Google Earth Enterprise Administration Guide for more information.

-[ Publish a Map Database on Google Earth Enterprise Server ]-

-[ To publish a database: ]-

Access the Google Earth Enterprise Server Admin console in a browser
window by going to myserver.mydomainname/admin, replacing myserver and
mydomainname with your server and domain.

Sign in with the default credentials or the username and password
assigned to you:  Default username: geapacheuser  Default password:
geeadmin  If you do not know your username and password, contact your
Google Earth Enterprise Server System Administrator.

Click Databases to display the list of databases pushed to the server.

Check the box next to the map database you want to publish. The
Publish button on the Databases page appears.

Click the Publish button. The Publish dialog appears.

Specify a Publish point where the database will be accessible from.
For example, if you specify MySFMap, it will be accessible from
myserver.mydomainname/MySFMap.  To learn more about the options
available in the Publish dialog, see Create Search tabs, Snippet
profiles, and WMS.

Click Publish. The Databases page updates to indicate the published
status of your database.

-[ View a Map Database ]-

After you publish your map database, you can view it from Google Earth
Enterprise Server or in any browser.

-[ To view your map database from Google Earth Enterprise Server ]-

Log in to the Admin console of Google Earth Enterprise Server.  The
Admin console opens to the Databases page.

Check the box next to the map database that you want to view.

Click Preview.  A new browser tab opens displaying your map database.

-[ To view your map database in any browser: ]-

Launch any web browser.

Point your browser to:  http://myserver.mydomainname/publish_point

where

myserver.mydomainname

 is the host name or IP address of your server to which you published
the map database, and

publish_point

 is the publish point that you specified when the published the map
database. For example:

   "http://my_host_name/MySFMap"

If you are not sure which server you published to, contact your Google
Earth Enterprise Server administrator for help.

Google Maps displays your database.

-[ Using the Google Base Map ]-

When you build a map database, you have the option to use the Google
Base Map. Enabling this feature connects to www.google.com, loads
Google base map tiles through the Google Maps Javascript API V3, and
renders your map layers on top of them.

Note: As per Google's terms of service, you may need to purchase a
  Maps for Business license if you are deploying your application in
  an internal environment.

Deploying the Google Base Map involves adding it when you build your
map database.

-[ To build your map database to include the Google Base Map: ]-

Select Asset Manager from the Tools menu. The Asset Manager appears.

Select Mercator Map Tools (2D). The tools for Mercator maps appear in
the toolbar.

Click image19. The Map Database Editor appears with no projects
selected.  Mercator Maps Database Editor Geo

Select the Use Google Base Map (google.com) checkbox.

Add your map project.  The map project appears in the Map Database
Editor next to Map Project.

Optionally add an imagery project. This is useful for overlaying high-
resolution imagery insets on the Google Base Map.

Select File > Save.  Your map database is saved to the location you
specified.

Build

,

Push

, and

Publish

 your map database as described in

Define, Push, and Publish a Map Database

.

-[ Learn more ]-

Google Maps JavaScript API V3 Reference
