
Setting Up the Tutorial

In Google Earth Enterprise Open Source, the fusion tutorial data is
not included in the installation packages. Refer to

Configure Tutorial Workspace

 for download and installation instructions.

In older versions, the Google Earth Enterprise Fusion tutorial data is
provided on the Google Earth Enterprise Fusion installation DVD and
should have been installed in "/opt/google/share/tutorials/fusion/" on
your workstation or network. In addition, your system administrator
should have configured a tutorial environment for you to work on the
tutorial lessons, keeping your practice data separate from your live
production data.

If Google Earth Enterprise Fusion or the tutorial files are not
installed or you encounter an error message that tells you that a
tutorial source file is not readable or you cannot save a resource,
contact your system administrator or refer to

Configure Tutorial Workspace

 to install the files and configure the tutorial environment before
saving any practice data.

As you follow the steps in this tutorial, you will begin to learn how
to create 2D and 3D databases, as well as become familiar with the
Google Earth Enterprise Fusion user interface.

Select the Tutorial Asset Root

Launch Google Earth Enterprise Fusion

Build the Asset Navigation Tree

Define Source Providers

Define Resource Paths

-[ Select the Tutorial Asset Root ]-

There are two occasions when you must select a different asset root:

When multiple users share a single workstation, you must select your
own tutorial asset root.

When you switch from the tutorial data to real production data, you
must select the appropriate asset root.

To configure asset roots for multiple users, see

Configure Tutorial Workspace

.

This section explains how to select a different asset root.

Warning: Caution:

   Even though your source volumes and asset roots are separate for
  each user or for the tutorial and production data, there is only one
  publish root on each virtual server for Earth databases and one for
  Map databases.

When two users are sharing a single workstation, both users are
publishing to the same publish root. When one user publishes a
database on that workstation, it overwrites any database that might
have been published previously by another user on that same
workstation. Likewise, if you are switching back and forth between
tutorial and production data on the same workstation, it is possible
to overwrite a production database with a tutorial database and vice
versa. Of course, you can republish the desired database to make it
available to Google Earth EC again.

-[ To select the tutorial asset root: ]-

On the command line, log in as root.

Stop the system manager by entering:  /etc/init.d/gefusion stop

Enter:  geselectassetroot --assetroot /username/assets  where username
is the name you or your system administrator used when configuring the
tutorial asset root. (If you do not know the path of your tutorial
asset root, contact your system administrator.)

When you return to the prompt, log out as root.

Start the system manager by entering:  /etc/init.d/gefusion start

-[ Launch Google Earth Enterprise Fusion ]-

Open a Linux terminal window.

Enter fusion (or fusion & to return to the Linux prompt).

When the application starts, the Google Earth Enterprise Fusion
graphical user interface (GUI) appears.

-[ Build the Asset Navigation Tree ]-

The components of a Google Earth Enterprise Fusion database are called

assets

. The main location where you store all of your Google Earth
Enterprise Fusion assets is called the

asset root

. The asset root is located in the main Google Earth Enterprise Fusion
volume--in most cases, "/gevol/assets". For the tutorial lessons, this
guide refers to the

tutorial asset root

 to differentiate it from the asset root that contains your live data.

In this exercise, you add subfolders to the tutorial asset root, so
you can store your assets in an organized way.

Warning: Caution:

   Once you create subfolders in your asset root, you cannot delete
  them. This makes it especially important for you to plan out and
  organize your subfolders before you or anyone else begins working
  with real data in Google Earth Enterprise Fusion.

-[ To add a subfolder: ]-

Open the Asset Manager by selecting Tools > Asset Manager. The Asset
Manager appears: Asset Manager The asset navigation tree appears on
the left side of the Asset Manager, and ASSET_ROOT is the only folder
on the tree.

Right-click ASSET_ROOT, and select New Subfolder from the context
menu. The New Subfolder dialog appears.

Enter Resources as the name of the new subfolder, and click OK. The
new subfolder appears in the asset navigation tree.

In the same way, add three more subfolders:  MapLayers  Projects
Databases  All four subfolders appear in alphabetical order in the
asset navigation tree.

For the Projects and Resources folders you just created, right-click
to create the following subfolders:  Vector  Imagery  Terrain  You do
not need to create Vector, Imagery, and Terrain subfolders for the
MapLayers or Databases folders.

Close the Asset Manager by clicking the close box (X) in the top right
corner.

-[ Define Source Providers ]-

The

Provider Manager

 allows you to create a list of organizations that provide the source
data you use in Google Earth. For each provider, you specify a unique
lookup key (any unique abbreviation you choose) and copyright
information. When you create a resource, a data provider is associated
with it, so that when the resource is displayed in Google Earth EC,
the appropriate copyright information is also displayed.

-[ To create a source provider: ]-

Open the Provider Manager by selecting Tools > Provider Manager.
Provider Manager

Click the Page Icon icon:  The Edit Provider dialog appears. Edit
Provider Dialog

Enter the following information:  Name: USGS Imagery Key: USGS-I
Copyright Text: Imagery © 2005 USGS To enter the copyright symbol,
open a text editor, press CTRL-SHIFT-U, then enter the Unicode 00A9.
Copy and paste the displayed symbol into the dialog.

Click OK.

Repeat steps 2 through 4 to add the following source providers:
Name  Key  Copyright Text  i3  i3  Imagery © 2005 i3  USGS Maps
USGS-M  Roads © 2005 USGS  GNIS/US Census Bureau  GNIS  Population ©
2005 GNIS  USGS POIs  USGS-P  POIs © 2004 USGS  USGS Terrain  USGS-T
Terrain © USGS 2003  NASA Imagery  NASA  Imagery courtesy NASA’s Earth
Observatory  The new providers appear in the Provider Manager dialog
in the order in which you added them: Provider Manager Full

Click OK to close the Provider Manager.

-[ Define Resource Paths ]-

The

Asset Manager Resource Editor Default Source Paths

 screen allows you to specify default paths for Vector, Imagery, and
Terrain resource types.

-[ To define resource paths: ]-

Open the Asset Manager Resource Editor Default Source Paths by
selecting Edit > Preferences > Asset Manager. Asset Manager Config

Click the Folder Icon icon on the right-hand side for Vector.  The
Select Folder dialog appears. Select Folder Dialog

Navigate to /opt/google/share/tutorials/fusion.

Select Vector, then click OK.

Repeat steps 2 through 4 for Imagery and Terrain.

Click the OK button to close the Asset Manager Resource Editor Default
Source Paths, and go on to the next lesson.
