
Publish databases and portables

When you

publish

 a Fusion database, you select the database you want to publish,
specify a

publish point

, then apply

publishing options

 in the

Publish

 dialog. Before you publish a Fusion database, you must register it by

pushing

 it to

GEE Server

.

With portable files, the process is a little different. Instead, first
you

register

 your portable globes and maps in the

Manage Portables

 dialog before publishing them. Registering a portable globe or map is
similar to

pushing

 a database from Fusion.

Publish a Fusion database

Register and publish a portable globe or map

-[ Publish a Fusion database ]-

-[ To publish a Fusion database: ]-

In the GEE Server Admin console, click Databases.

Check the box next to the database or portable to publish.

Click the Publish button to open the Publish dialog.  Publish dialog
example

Specify a Publish point, which is where you access the database or
portable. For example, if you specify sanfrancisco, it will be
accessible from myserver.mydomainname.com/sanfrancisco.  When
publishing a database, the publish point you specify is case-
insensitive. Upper and lower case are not differentiated. Make sure
each publish point path name you specify is unique.

Specify the following options:  POI Search (Fusion databases with
search data only)  Search Tabs (Fusion databases only)  Snippet
profile (Fusion 3D databases only)

Select a Virtual host.

Optionally enable Serve WMS.

Click the Publish button. The Databases page updates to indicate the
published status of your database.

-[ To register a portable globe or map: ]-

In the GEE Server Admin console, click Databases.

Click Manage Portables to open the Manage portable globes dialog.
Manage Portables dialog example  The list of globes and maps
corresponds to the files located in the default
/opt/google/gehttpd/htdocs/cutter/globes directory.

Click Register next to the globe or map that you want to make
available for publishing on GEE Server. The registered globe or map
appears in the list on the Databases page of the Admin console.  You
can register as many portable globes or maps as you have listed in the
dialog. Click Unregister to make a globe or map unavailable on GEE
Server.

On the Databases page of the Admin console, check the box next to the
portable globe or map you wish to publish.

Click Publish to open the Publish dialog.

Specify a Publish point, where the portable will be accessible from.
For example, if you specify grandcanyon, it will be accessible from
myserver.mydomainname.com/grandcanyon.  When publishing a database,
the publish point you specify is case-insensitive. Upper and lower
case are not differentiated. Make sure each publish point path name
you specify is unique.

Select a Virtual host.

Click the Publish button. The Databases page updates to indicate the
published status of your portable globe or map.

-[ Learn more ]-

Manage snippet profiles

Manage virtual hosts

Make Web Map Service (WMS) requests

Create Portable Globes and Maps
