
Search your POI vector data or map layer data

With GEE, you can perform simple text searches of your POI vector data
or map layer data. If you have one or more text fields that you would
like to query from vector or map layer data in a project, you can
simply add those search fields to that vector data’s layer. You
include the layer as part of the

vector project

 that you want to include in the 2D or 3D database.

For example, you may be interested in displaying the US Census Bureau
population statistics on your map or globe, based on county name. Once
you have added the census data as a layer in a vector project, you can
easily add the search fields to the individual population data layer
in the vector project. You can also choose how you want the labels for
the search results to appear on the map, such as search and display a
field, or simply display it.

-[ Add search fields to individual layers of your vector projects ]-

After you have added a layer to a vector project, you can configure it
to add search functionality. You use the

Search

 tab in the Layer Properties dialog to specify one or more search
fields to query your source data.

-[ To add search fields to individual layers of a vector project: ]-

In the Asset Manager, double-click the name of the project in which
you want to modify layers. The Vector Project Editor displays the list
of layers included in the project.

View the layer properties for a resource in a project by right-
clicking the layer name in the Vector Project Editor and selecting
Layer Properties from the context menu.

Click the Search tab in the Layer Properties dialog.  Layer Properties
Search Tab

Click New Icon. The Add Search Field dialog appears.  Layer Properties
Add Search

Select the desired field from the Column Name drop-down list. Select
an option from the Use drop-down list:  Search Only - Google Earth EC
searches against the selected field but does not display the results.
Display Only - Google Earth EC displays the values of the selected
field in the results but does not search against the selected field.
Search and Display - Google Earth EC searches against the selected
field and displays the results.  An example of search fields added to
a layer in a vector project describes the use of US Census Bureau data
and setting up fields to query the County name and display the
population per county in the results shown in the client. See the
tutorial lesson Specifying Search Fields for Individual Layers.

Repeat the steps above for each additional field you want to add to
the search. Your selections appear on the list of search fields on the
Search tab in the order in which you added them:  Layer Properties Add
Search Full  The order in which the fields appear on this list is the
order in which they appear in the description balloon in the client.
(The fields designated as Search Only do not affect the order in which
the fields to be displayed appear.)

To change the order in which the fields appear, select a field and use
the Layer Properties Add Search Up Arrow Icon and Layer Properties Add
Search Down Arrow Icon arrows.

To remove a field, select it and click Layer Properties Add Search
Delete Icon.

Click the OK button to save the Search field properties.

Select File > Save in the Vector Project Editor to save the changes to
the layer.  This search performs an exact match, which means that the
Google Earth EC user must enter the value exactly as it appears in the
database. It can also perform a wildcard search, so users can enter
part of the text they want to match. For example, if a user enters
“dakota” in a state search, the search results match “North Dakota”
and “South Dakota”.

Once you have added your POI vector project to the database you want
to publish, push it to GEE Server, then turn on POI Search when you
publish.  Publish Dialog POI Search

Setting the

+Enhanced Search

 to

On

 will first perform a

POI search

 against the vector data in your database, and if no results are
found, perform an

Enhanced Search

 using the

GeocodingFederated

 search plug-in, searching your database for queried places or
coordinates.

For example, if your query in Google Earth EC for a city name returned
no results via the POI search plug-in, the GeoFederated search plugin
would automatically search for that city name.

Note: The POI Search option in the Publish dialog is only available
  if you build your database with POI data as a vector resource layer.
  If you want to perform a POI search on a database external to your
  globe or map, e.g., on a different server, you can use the POI
  Search tab or create your own custom search plug-in.

Once you have added the search fields, the main Search tab in Google
Earth EC displays the POI search and includes the field(s) that you
specified for your queries.


-[ Specify POI Search tab settings ]-

You can also modify the appearance of the POI search tab in Google
Earth EC by editing the system search tab,

POI Search

, which sets the query parameters for the search fields you added to
your vector layer, as well as specifying the labels for the tab, query
field, and suggestion box.

-[ To specify the settings of the POI Search tab: ]-

In the GEE Server Admin console, click Search tabs.

Check the box next to POISearch, then click Edit.  The Edit Search
Definition dialog appears.  POI Search Tab Definition

Edit the name of the system search tab to create your own POISearch
tab definition. You cannot modify system search tabs without changing
the name.

Edit the label, specify any query parameters and modify the field
label and suggestion box as required.

Click the Save button.

Click Databases to swtich to the list of available databases on GEE
Server. Check the box next to the database you want to publish with
search, then click Publish. The Publish dialog appears.

Change the POI Search option to On.  Setting the +Enhanced Search to
On also will first perform a POI search against the vector data in
your database, and then, if no results are found, perform an Enhanced
Search using the GeocodingFederated search plug-in, searching your
database for queried places or coordinates.

Click the Search tabs drop-down list to add your POI search tab.  POI
Search Tab in Publish Dialog

Click the Publish button. A message appears to confirm the successful
publishing process.
