
Before you install GEE Server

Before installing Google Earth Enterprise (GEE) Server, you must
configure your hardware, network, and GEE users. You should also
carefully decide in advance where you want to store Fusion data and
where you want to publish Fusion databases. You must provide this
information during installation. The following sections provide
information about GEE requirements, considerations, and best
practices. Be sure to complete all of the tasks described in these
sections before installing GEE Server.

-[ Upgrading ]-

To prevent compatibility issues, you must run the same version of GEE
Server and Fusion. If you upgrade Fusion without upgrading GEE Server,
you will not be able to publish to the GEE Server database.

-[ Configuring Your Host Volumes ]-

The best practices for naming your host volumes are:

Network naming convention. You should use a network naming convention
for any new volume that hosts Fusion or source data, whether it is
initially part of a network or not, because you will almost certainly
migrate to a network-based configuration eventually. Fusion requires
both a network path and local name to resolve the locations of source
files and related Fusion data, so changing the host volume name or
path invalidates Fusion data. On a single workstation setup, the local
and network paths are identical, but on a network-based configuration
they are not.

/gevol. You should use /gevol as your volume naming convention because
it is unlikely to conflict with standard Linux volume definitions.
Linux systems frequently use either /vol(*) or /data(*) as the local
volume definition on a new system, so using this convention for Fusion
can cause name conflicts if you later switch from a single workstation
to a network-based configuration. For example, if you initially define
/vol1/assets as the network location for a Fusion asset root, and you
later add another workstation that has a local volume called /vol1,
that workstation cannot reference /vol1/assetsthrough the network
because of the name conflict with its local volume definition. (See
Planning the Location of Your Asset Root for more information about
the asset root.) You can avoid this conflict by using a unique naming
convention for all volumes on your network (such as /vol1... /voln),
but /gevol is a good choice because it is descriptive.

-[ Configuring Multiple Storage Devices ]-

GEE Server and the Fusion asset root, source volumes, and publish root
require large amounts of disk storage space. Fusion requires about
three times as much storage space as GEE Server. The storage space can
be either in the form of internal disks, directly attached storage
devices, network-attached storage (NAS) devices, or storage area
network (SAN) devices. Typically, these devices are configured into
redundant arrays of independent disks (RAIDs) and presented to the
operating system as volumes. Volumes can range in size from several
hundred gigabytes to tens of terabytes.

The difference between configuring a workstation with one, two, or
three volumes is how you define the mount point for the source and
asset volumes.

When configuring a Linux workstation, it is best practice to use the
following mount point naming conventions:

Single volume  Mount the single drive to slash (/). All data
(/gevol/assets, /gevol/src, and /gevol/published_dbs) resides on that
drive with the local path defined using the /gevol naming convention.

Two volumes - a small system volume and a larger data volume  Mount
the small system drive to slash (/). Mount the larger data drive to
/gevol/. Source and asset data volumes can then be defined as
/gevol/assets and /gevol/src.

Three volumes - a small system volume and two larger data volumes
Mount the small system drive to slash (/). Mount the first large data
drive to /gevol/assets. Mount the second large data drive to
/gevol/src.

More than three volumes  There are several strategies for storing very
large data sets. Fusion can read from and write to multiple volumes.
For more information, you can request help on our Slack channel.

It is also important to keep internal and external storage devices
separated so that if your internal server goes down, it does not
affect your ability to serve published data to external clients.
Likewise, if your external server goes down, you can replace it and
publish from the internal storage device. Perhaps more importantly,
keeping your internal and external storage devices separate reduces
the possibility of performance problems that could occur if you are
building a large data set or if a client requests a time-consuming
search.

-[ Planning the Location of Your Publish Root ]-

During GEE Server installation, you must specify a volume for the

publish root

. The publish root is the directory in which all of your published
databases are stored.

If you specify a different volume than the asset root

:

Whenever you publish a database, Fusion registers the database on the
specified volume and then copies all of the database files to the
designated volume.

For example, if you specify "/gevol/assets" for your asset root and
"/data1/published_dbs" for your publish root, whenever you publish a
database, Fusion copies all of the database files from "/gevol/assets"
to "/data1/published_dbs" (unless you allow symbolic links during
installation). Copying takes more time as well as extra disk space.

If you specify the same volume as the asset root

:

Whenever you publish a database, Fusion registers the database on the
specified volume and sets symbolic links to the database files.

For example, if you specify "/gevol/assets" for your asset root and
"/gevol/published_dbs" for your publish root, whenever you publish a
database, Fusion registers the database on "gevol" and sets hard links
to the database files. No copying is necessary.

-[ Setting Up GEE Users ]-

The GEE installer automatically configures certain system users to
perform background tasks at the system level. If you accept the
default user names and allow the installer to create those users on
your local workstation, you are implementing local authentication
only. Local authentication is designed for standalone workstations
only.

If you are using GEE over a network with at least two workstations,
storage devices, or servers, the best practice is to use a centralized
network authentication system such as LDAP, NIS, or one of the many
commercially available systems.

If you use a centralized network authentication system, you must add
the following users to your authentication system’s user list:

gefusionuser

geapacheuser

gepguser

The primary group for all of these users is

gegroup

.

If you are in a multi-user environment in which multiple workstations
share a common asset root on a NAS/SAN,

these users must have the same UID on all devices, so you must assign
them explicitly in both your network authentication system and in GEE

.

Be sure to configure each GEE workstation, storage device, and GEE
Server to use your network authentication system. For more
information, see your network authentication system documentation.

-[ Customizing GEE User Names ]-

You can use customized user and group names when installing Fusion.
Specify the custom user and group names via the "-u" and "-g" options
when running the installer. The GEE Server installer does not
currently provide the option to customize user and group names.

-[ Deciding Which Products To Install ]-

You do not need to install all products on all devices. Follow the
guidelines below.

Development machine

:

Install both Fusion and GEE Server on the server machine that you want
to use to import your source GIS data and create flyable 3D and 2D
databases. A system in this configuration is typically called the
"development machine" since its primary task is to build flyable
databases and only a small number of users will view the flyable data
for quality assurance testing.

Install the Fusion tutorial files on the "development machine" for
users who are new to Fusion or to this version of Fusion. You can also
use the Fusion tutorial files to test publishing.

Production machine

:

Install only the GEE Server on the server machine that hosts flyable
3D and 2D databases. All authorized end-users will connect to this
system -- typically referred to as the "production machine" -- to view
the flyable databases. This machine must be accessible through the
network from the development machine in order to publish databases.

Users who will not have direct network access to their production
machines, or users who plan to update remote systems with external
hard drives, must also install the "Disconnected Publishing Add-on"
for additional tools.
