
Verifying and troubleshooting

Verifying that the System Manager is Running

Troubleshooting a Failed System Manager

Restarting the Server

-[ Verifying That the System Manager Is Running ]-

Because a properly running system manager is critical to using Google
Earth Enterprise Fusion, as well as for converting your source data to
Google Earth Enterprise Fusion assets, verify that the system manager
is running after the initial installation of Google Earth Enterprise
Fusion and whenever you encounter problems building assets.

To verify that the system manager is running, enter the following
command at a shell prompt:

"getop"

A list of running processes appears. Two processes appear on the list:

gesystemmanager  This process is necessary to configure or build
resources, projects, and databases with Google Earth Enterprise
Fusion. If this process appears on the list, Google Earth Enterprise
Fusion is running properly.  If you do not see this process on the
list, follow the troubleshooting suggestions in the Troubleshooting
section to correct it.

geresourceprovider  This process manages the workstation resources on
the behalf of the system manager. It also monitors free disk space on
the volumes for any connected workstations.  If you see a connection
refused message, see the Troubleshooting section.

-[ Troubleshooting a Failed System Manager ]-

If the Google Earth Enterprise Fusion system manager fails to run, you
can try stopping and restarting the it, which resolves most minor
problems.

-[ Restarting the system manager ]-

Log in as root.

Stop the system manager:  /etc/init.d/gefusion stop

Start the system manager:  /etc/init.d/gefusion start

If you are still having problems starting the system manager after
stopping and restarting the system manager, you can view the log file
for the system manager to see what errors have been reported. The log
file is located in:

"/var/opt/google/log/gesystemmanager.log"

Any errors are listed after the

Started

 notice, which appears in the log for each time you started the system
manager.

Note: If you see a "Connection Refused" message when running the
  "getop" command, but do not see any error messages in the log file,
  ensure that the log directory is writable by Google Earth Enterprise
  Fusion users.

Likewise, if Google Earth Enterprise Server fails to run, you can try
stopping and restarting it, which resolves most problems.

-[ Restarting the Server ]-

Log in as root.

Stop and restart the server.  /etc/init.d/geserver restart
