
Create terrain overlays

-[ Create terrain overlays ]-

Introduction

Creating Terrain Overlays

Define, Build, and Push a Database for the Terrain Overlay

Publish a Database for the Terrain Overlay

View the Database

-[ Introduction ]-

A terrain overlay is a secondary terrain database that you can use to
“overlay” on top of another database in Google Earth EC. For example,
you may want to add a terrain overlay as an inset of terrain data at a
higher resolution. Another great benefit is how easy it is to add new
terrain resources for just a specific area of an existing database,
requiring less storage space and less time; instead of having to
rebuild the entire terrain project, you can now just build a new
database for a terrain overlay, based on the new resource, then add it
as an additional database (terrain layer) in Google Earth EC.

A terrain database is defined by the resolution tiles that contain it,
but the actual terrain can have an irregular shape. For example, a
geospatially smaller database of terrain that contains the land mass
for a country includes areas of the resolution tiles that are outside
the country's borders. These areas are called fill, and Google Earth
Enterprise Fusion lets you create an overlay that uses lower
resolution data for the fill area, which can then “blend” as you add
your secondary terrain database on top.

-[ Base terrain database: ]-


-[ Secondary terrain overlay database with low resolution "fill": ]-


In Google Earth EC, you overlay the secondary database using Add
Database, blending the two terrain databases together.

-[ Base terrain database and secondary terrain database blend together
with low resolution “fill” created by the terrain overlay: ]-


Tip: Using the base terrain as the fill for the secondary terrain
  ensures smooth viewing transitions at the overlay borders.

-[ Creating Terrain Overlays ]-

You create the terrain overlay in the Terrain Project Editor:

Select Tools > Asset Manager. The Asset Manager appears.

Click Terrain project icon. The Terrain Project Editor opens. New
Terrain project editor window

Click Open file icon. The Open dialog appears.  The selection in the
Type drop-down list near the bottom of this dialog determines the type
of resources that appear on the list. Terrain Resource is
automatically selected when you open this dialog from the Terrain
Project Editor, so only terrain resources appear on the list.

Navigate to the folder that contains the terrain resources.

Select the resource that you want to add to the project and click
Open. The selected resource appears in the Terrain Project Editor.

Repeat steps 3 through 5 for each additional resource that you want to
include in your terrain project.

Check the Build "Overlay" box and specify the Start Level and
Resources Min Level values.  Start Level determines the resolution
level from which the terrain overlay will be built. For example,
specifying a value of 4 denotes the initial resolution level of 4 is
used to build the overlay. You should specify a start level to a value
where the terrain inset becomes significant based on the minimum
resolution level of the terrain resources used to build the terrain
overlay.  For example, if the resolution level for terrain insets used
for building the terrain overlay is 17 while the resolution level for
filling terrain is 9, as in the example below, then the Start Level
might be set to 14 or 16. This would build a terrain overlay from a
resolution level of 14 or 16 where the higher resolution terrain will
typically begin to be relevant.  In some cases, where smoother
transitions across zoom levels are desired, a lower Start Level might
be used, and in very rare cases where the overlay data differs
radically from the base terrain data, the Start Level might be set
even lower than the fill terrain resolution.  Resources Min Level
defines a threshold level that separates the resources into either
fill terrain or the actual overlay terrain. Resources with a
resolution level that is less than the Resources Min Level level are
used to create the "fill" for the terrain overlay. Resources with a
resolution level at or above the threshold level are used to create
the overlay terrain itself. In this example, using the WorldTopography
resource with a resolution level of 9 and setting the Resources Min
Level to 14 specifies WorldTopography as fill in the terrain overlay.
Likewise in this example, the SFTerrain resource with a resolution
level of 17, higher than the Resources Min Level of 14, is used as the
actual overlay terrain.  It is the overlay resources and not the fill
resources that determine the extent of the overlay.  If every resource
is at or above the Resources Min Level, then 0 (sea level) is used for
the fill terrain. Equally, if you set the Start Level to a resolution
beyond the extent of the base terrain resource resolution, then 0 (sea
level) is used for fill terrain.  Terrain project editor window with
resources

When you have finished setting the terrain overlay options, click File
> Save.

Navigate to the folder where you wish to save the project or click New
folder icon to create a folder in the desired location.

Enter the name of the project, and click Save. The new project name
appears in the Asset Manager’s asset list.

Right-click the project name and select Build from the context menu.
The status of the project immediately changes to Queued and then In
Progress.  When the status of the build changes to Succeeded, go on to
add the project to a new database.

-[ Define, Build, and Push a Database for the Terrain Overlay ]-

This exercise walks you through the process of defining, building, and
pushing a database using the projects you created in the previous
exercise.

-[ To define, build, and push a database: ]-

In the Asset Manager click Database editor icon. The Database Editor
appears with no projects selected.

Click Open file icon next to Terrain Project. The Open dialog appears.

Navigate to the folder where you saved your terrain overlay project.

Select the name of your terrain overlay project and click Open. The
terrain overlay project appears next to Terrain Project in the
Database Editor.

Select File > Save.

Navigate to the /ASSET_ROOT/Databases folder.

Enter a name for the database, and click Save. The name of the
database appears on the right when you select the
/ASSET_ROOT/Databases folder in the asset navigation tree.

Right-click the name of your database and select Build from the
context menu. Google Earth Enterprise Fusion builds the database.

Right-click the name of your database and select Push from the context
menu. The Push Database dialog appears.

Click Push. Google Earth Enterprise Fusion runs the process of pushing
the database to the Google Earth Enterprise Server, and displays a
success message when it is done.

-[ Publish a Database for the Terrain Overlay ]-

This exercise walks you through the process of publishing the terrain
overlay database.

-[ To publish a database: ]-

Access the Google Earth Enterprise Server Admin console in a browser
window by going to myserver.mydomainname.com/admin, replacing myserver
and mydomainname with your server and domain.

Sign in with the default credentials or the username and password
assigned to you:  Default username: geapacheuser  Default password:
geeadmin  If you do not know your username and password, contact your
Google Earth Enterprise Server System Administrator.

Click Databases to display the list of databases pushed to the server.
The name of your terrain overlay database is listed but not yet
published.  A pushed database is appended to the list so you may need
to click through to the last page of your database list to display it.

Check the box next to the name of your database. The Publish button
appears.

Click the Publish button. The Publish dialog appears.

Accept the default Publish point and click Publish.

The Databases page now indicates the published status of your
database.  Now you are ready to add your terrain overlay as a
secondary database in Google Earth EC.

-[ View the Database ]-

After you publish the database, you can add the terrain overlay as a
secondary database in Google Earth EC. You first connect to the
primary database you want to add the terrain overlay to.

-[ To add the terrain overlay database: ]-

Launch Google Earth EC.

The Select Server dialog appears.

Specify the Publish point of the primary database you want to add the
terrain overlay to by entering or selecting the URL or IP address of
your server and database in the Server field. For example, the Publish
point is myserver.mydomainname.com/mydatabase, where myserver and
mydomainname are specific to your server.

Click the Sign In button.  If you have logged in to this server with
Google Earth EC previously, log out, clear your cache, and log back
in. See Clearing the Google Earth EC cache.

Google Earth EC displays your database. The Layers panel shows any
terrain, imagery, and vector layers in the database.

Select File > Add Database. The Select Server dialog appears.

Specify the Publish point of your terrain overlay database by entering
or selecting the URL or IP address of your server and database in the
Server field. For example, the Publish point is
myserver.mydomainname.com/myterrainoverlay, where myserver and
mydomainname are specific to your server.

Click the Sign In button.

Google Earth EC adds the database. The Layers panel shows the
secondary database.

Check the box next to Terrain to add the terrain overlay. Google Earth
EC displays the terrain overlay on top of the existing database.

-[ Learn more ]-

Defining and Building Projects
