
Vector data handling

In the Fusion

Vector Resource

 dialog, you can select options for processing your source files:

Ignore bad features. By default, Fusion reports any issues related to
reading features and their attributes from source files and fails to
ingest the data. A reported "bad feature" typically means that
something is wrong with the vector data file, such as "Empty feature,"
"Invalid extents," "Can't read feature," "Unable to get feature," or
"Unable to get attributes." If you select "Ignore," Fusion skips the
bad features and processes the file.

Don't fix invalid geometries. By default, Fusion handles invalid
geometry in polygon vector data files as described in the table below.
If you select "Don't fix," Fusion ingests the vector data as-is, but
it might skip the invalid geometry, process it (either correctly or
incorrectly), fuse it incorrectly, or fail to fuse it at all. The
result might be incorrect.

-[ How Fusion handles geometry ]-

      Example  Description  Fusion handling  Self-intersecting
polygons  Self-intersecting polygon cycles. For example, “bow tie”
figures.  Fusion might skip or might not process correctly.  Crossing
cycles  Polygon cycles that are not properly nested. For example, an
inner cycle that is partly outside the outer cycle, or cycles that
cross each other within a single polygon.  Fusion might skip or might
not process correctly.  Touching vertices  Fusion allows polygon
cycles with touching vertices. For example, outer cycle or inner cycle
vertices that touch each other.  This geometry is valid. Fusion
processes correctly.  Identical coordinates  Polygon cycle linestrings
that have consecutive points within an XY tolerance that is equal to
or less than 0.0003m.  Fusion removes the duplicate vertices.  Spike
Polygon cycles with “spikes.“ A spike is defined as an angle that is
equal to or less than 3.15e-3 radians.  Fusion removes the spike and
merges the edges.  Gore  Polygon cycles with “gores.” A gore is
defined as an angle that is equal to or less than 3.15e-3 radians.
Fusion removes the gore and merges the edges.  Zero area  Polygon
cycles with zero area. If the polygon is a triangle with an angle that
is less than 3.15e-3 radians, Fusion treats it as a spike and removes
it. After the spike is removed, the result is a polygon with zero
area.  Fusion removes the polygon with zero area.
