
GEE Server Overview 5.x

GEE Server 5.x introduces a flexible and dynamic approach to
publishing maps and globes: When publishing, you specify unique
options for a map or globe at a given URL; the map or globe can then
be easily published multiple times at different URLs with different
configurations. Likewise, particular configurations can quickly be
unpublished or modified.

Virtual hosts (previously called virtual servers) now only specify a
security protocol and can be associated with multiple published globes
and maps. This change decouples the task of setting up security
protocols from publishing maps and globes.

Associating

search sets

 and

snippet profiles

 at the time of publishing allows you to present different versions of
the same underlying Fusion database, which can then be made available
at different URLs and under different security protocols. For
example,you can protect one set of searchable data but display it on
the same globe as an unprotected set of searchable data. You can then
publish the database privately by adding the sensitive search and a
secured virtual host at one URL, then publish the database again, this
time adding the non-sensitive search and public virtual host at a
different URL.

GEE Server now supports

Web Map Service (WMS)

. One of the benefits of using the WMS standard is that supported
clients can request images from multiple WMS servers and then combine
those mapping images into a single view. Because the WMS standard is
used to get all the images, they can easily be overlaid on one
another.

Publishing

 can now be done in a matter of seconds from the GEE Server admin
console, and no longer requires interaction with Fusion. We hope that
this new publishing approach makes your life easier and maybe even a
little more fun!

GEE Server also provides tools for

cutting portable globes

 (".glb") and maps (".glc").

Composite globes and maps

 can be assembled from 2D or 3D portable files. The resulting offline
globe or map is packed as a ".glc" file that may be downloaded for use
with Portable Server.
