
System requirements for Fusion and GEE Server

-[ Hardware Requirements ]-

Minimum 2 dual-core Intel or AMD CPUs; 2.0 GHz or higher recommended.

Minimum 4 GB RAM (8 GB RAM for Red Hat Enterprise Linux); 8 GB RAM (or
more) per core recommended for Fusion.

Minimum 500 GB of total hard disk storage.

A graphics card with at least 64 MB video RAM (NVIDIA GeForce4 or
higher preferred for Fusion GUI). You can install this graphics card
in a separate workstation that accesses Fusion.

Note: If you plan on cutting globes, this processing can be CPU-
  intensive and you may also need to plan on providing more storage
  depending on the size of the globes.

Note: On virtual machines

  : Fusion can be both CPU and I/O intensive. For optimal, stable
  performance, you should install it only on physical (non-virtual)
  machines. You can run GEE Server on a virtualized platform, provided
  the guest OS is one of our supported 64-bit distributions and you
  allocate sufficient resources to the VM.

-[ Software Requirements ]-

Operating Systems

Google Earth Enterprise is supported only on the 64-bit versions of
the operating systems listed below.

   Red Hat Enterprise Linux 6.x and 7.x, including the most recent
   security patches

   CentOS 6.x and 7.x

   Ubuntu 14.04 LTS and 16.04 LTS

Browsers

Google Earth Enterprise is supported on the following browsers on all
operating systems:

   The latest version of Google Chrome

   The latest version of Mozilla Firefox

However, Google Earth Enterprise should work with any modern browser.

Google Earth Enterprise Client (EC)

The following versions of Google Earth Enterprise Client (EC) are
recommended for use with Google Earth Enterprise:

   Version 5.x, use Google Earth EC version 7.0 or later

   Version 4.4, use Google Earth EC version 6.1 or later

Note: Although older versions of Google Earth EC, i.e., 6.0 and
  earlier,

  may

   still connect to Google Earth Enterprise or Portable 3D databases,
  not all features will be available. Also, as Google Earth Enterprise
  has not been tested or certified against older versions of Google
  Earth EC, there may be unknown operational problems.

Google Earth Enterprise Client (EC) is supported on the following
platforms:

Windows

Mac

Linux

Unsupported Versions and Environments

There are many variations of operating systems and related software;
point ("x.x") releases can sometimes contain changes that can impact
your GEE installation. Although an unsupported version of these
software packages may appear to function correctly, their use in a
production environment is not recommended. Unexpected results may
occur.

Where possible, you should adhere to the hardware and software
specifications listed in this document. If a problem arises in an
unsupported configuration, we may not be able to help you resolve it.

-[ Network Requirements ]-

Each destination server must meet the requirements below before you
install GEE, and you must not change these settings after deploying
GEE. The hostname must be the FQDN (Fully Qualified Domain Name) of
your destination server, e.g., "myserver.mydomainname.com". Refer to

Hostname FQDN Configuration

 for additional details.

You can verify the hostname of your workstation by entering "hostname"
at a shell prompt, and you can verify the network connection by using
the "ping" command to reach other hosts in the same network. The
requests should resolve using both and IP address and the FQDN.

   Hostname registered in DNS

   Hosts file is acceptable for small-scale systems

   Allocated IP addresses

   Correct network routing paths

   Network connectivity (Ports 80 and 22; Port 443 for HTTPS)

   Default installation of a Supported OS

   Java Development Kit or Runtime Environment (must download from
   Sun; use version 1.6.0_12 or newer)

   OpenSSL 0.9.8y (on OS media)

   Python 2.7.5 (on OS media)

   Storage for all source data and asset tree

   May be local storage (i.e., RAID 5 array)

   NAS storage via NFS acceptable

   SAN storage acceptable

   USB drive not recommended

-[ Supported Configurations ]-

Google Earth Enterprise products are developed per the hardware and
software requirements listed above. The products are intended to be
installed according to the processes described in this documentation.
When installing Google Earth Enterprise in an unsupported environment,
there are risks that the products may not operate as intended.

Some factors that could affect your installation and deployment are:

Installations on unsupported operating systems.

Improperly configured DNS.

Third party or non-default permissions or security measures (no root
access, sudo blockers, etc.).

Complex proxy configurations that prevent the network communications
from operating as intended.

-[ Important System Security Information ]-

We strongly recommend that users who wish to host 3D and 2D globes
online with Google Earth Enterprise follow industry standard security
practices and review their systems and networks before enabling
access. Although we takes every precaution to secure the information,
there is always the risk of unauthorized access outside of a closed or
protected network.
