
Add flat imagery to Mercator map databases in GEE 5.1.0

When you build a Mercator-based map database, you must build imagery
projects specifically for use with Mercator-based projection (EPSG:
3857). However, with GEE 5.1.0, if you already have database imagery
projects in the Plate Carrée projection (EPSG: 4326), you can reuse
them for your Mercator-based map database using

Mercator on the Fly

. When disk space is a key consideration, you only need imagery
projects in Plate Carrée projection for 2D flat, 2D Mercator, and 3D
databases, reducing the storage requirements for your assets.

Mercator on the Fly

 converts a Plate Carrée-based imagery project into a Mercator-based
imagery project when you create your map database in Fusion. When GEE
Server hosts the published Mercator database, the server requests the

Mercator on the Fly

 imagery project in the database and serves it with a Mercator
projection. With some projections, you may see a reduction in serving
speed when projecting a

Mercator on the Fly

 imagery project. For more information about performance, see

Mercator on the Fly Performance Data

.

As you decide which type of imagery project to build, you will need to
consider the projection types you need and whether disk space or
serving speed is important. For 2D flat, 2D Mercator, and 3D
databases, you can use flat imagery with

Mercator on the Fly

 if disk space is a key consideration. However if serving speed is a
key consideration, you should build both flat and Mercator imagery
projects. The following table shows the decision matrix to guide you:

        Build projects/serve databases  Mercator  2D flat and 3D  2D
flat, Mercator, and 3D  Flat imagery project  X  image1  image2 Disk
space is most important. Flat imagery projects used for all database
types, with Mercator on the Fly used to serve flat imagery for
Mercator map databases.  Mercator imagery project  image3  X    Flat
and Mercator imagery projects  image4  image5  image6 Serving speed is
most important. Flat imagery projects used for 3D and 2D flat
databases; Mercator imagery projects for Mercator map databases.

Of course, if you are serving imagery

only

 as Mercator map databases, you should only build Mercator imagery
projects.

-[ To add a flat imagery resource to a Mercator-based map database: ]-

Select Asset Manager from the Tools menu. The Asset Manager dialog
appears.

Select Mercator Map Tools (2D) from the Asset Manager toolbar. The
tools for Mercator maps appear in the toolbar.

Click image7. The Map Database Editor appears with no projects
selected.  Mercator Maps Database Editor

Click image9 next to Map Project. The Open Asset dialog appears.

Navigate to the ASSET_ROOT/Projects/Mapfolder.

Select the map project that you want to add to the map database and
click Open. The map project appears in the Map Database Editor next to
Map Project.

Click image10 next to Imagery Project. The Open Asset dialog appears.

Navigate to the ASSET_ROOT/Projects/Imagery folder.

Select Flat Imagery Project from the Type drop-down list, then select
the imagery project to add and click Open. The imagery project appears
in the Map Database Editor next to Imagery Project.

Select File > Save.

Navigate to the ASSET_ROOT/Databases folder.

In the Name field, enter a name, and click Save.  In the Asset
Manager, the new map database appears, along with the other databases
you have created. Notice that the Category column distinguishes
between the Google Earth databases and the Google Maps database.

Right-click the name of your map database, and select Build from the
context menu.  The status of the database immediately changes to
Waiting or Queued and then to In Progress.  When Google Earth
Enterprise Fusion finishes building the database, its Current State
column in the Asset Manager changes to Succeeded, and its Current
Version column changes to the date and time the most recent build was
started.

-[ Mercator on the Fly performance data ]-

Mercator resolution increases relative to Plate Carrée as latitude
increases (or decreases) from the equator for any given map level.
Therefore to obtain the correct Mercator resolution, tiles must be
sampled from higher Plate Carrée levels (known as upsampling). The
higher the latitude, the greater the number of tiles required and, as
a result, processing time for

Mercator on the Fly

 increases (although not proportionally). The following table lists
the number of Plate Carrée tiles required to produce a single

Mercator on the Fly

 tile vs. latitude (north or south) and the approximate expected
increase in processing time assuming cached tiles.

        Approximate Latitude Range(degrees)  Level Up to sample  MotF
P.C. tiles processed  Max Relative Clock Time Ratio (relative to 1
tile)  0 to 40  1  1-2  1 to 1.2 (2 tiles)  40 to 65  2  up to 4  2.1
(4 tiles)  65 to 75  3  up to 8  3.2 (8 tiles)  75 to 85  4  up to 16
5.1 (16 tiles)

-[ Learn more ]-

Push and publish databases


Make Web Map Service (WMS) requests
