
Creating Imagery Mosaics

The simplest way to import source data is to create one resource from
each data file. In certain cases, though, you might obtain multiple
source files that comprise a single image. In that case, you can
combine the source files into a single resource, called a

mosaic

. This lesson guides you through the process of creating an imagery
mosaic.

Note: All of the steps in this lesson apply to terrain data as well.

Create an Imagery Resource

Create a Virtual Mosaic

Apply a Custom Mask to the Virtual Mosaic

-[ Create an Imagery Resource ]-

To create a mosaic, the source images must meet the following
requirements:

Source images must be in the same projection and use the same
coordinate system

Source images must have the same resolution

Source images must have geographic proximity to each other

Ideally, the individual source images are perfectly abutting (no
overlap, no gaps)

-[ To define an imagery mosaic: ]-

Select Asset Manager from the Tools menu. The Asset Manager appears.

Click Imagery Resource Editor Icon on the toolbar. The Imagery
Resource Editor appears.  Imagery Resource Editor

Set the Acquisition Date to today’s date in year-month-day format by
clicking each section of the date and enter the values.

Select USGS Imagery from the Provider drop-down list.

Set the Mask Type (under Mask Options) to No Mask.

Click Add. The Open Source dialog appears.

Navigate to the
/opt/google/share/tutorials/fusion/Imagery/SF_grayscale/SFnorth
folder.

Select all four TIFF files (only the four files with the .tif
extension), and click Open.  Open Source Dialog  The selected files
appear on the Source File(s) list.  Notice that the Mosaic Options
area is enabled when you import more than one imagery file. (Refer to
the Reference Guide for detailed explanations of these settings.)

Under Mosaic Options, for Tile Fill, select Black. Now the Fill
Tolerance option is enabled.

For Fill Tolerance, select 1.

Select File > Save.

Navigate to the /ASSET_ROOT/Resources/Imagery folder you created in
Setting Up the Tutorial.

Enter the name ImageryMosaic for the resource, and click Save.  The
name of the resource appears on the right when you select the
/ASSET_ROOT/Resources/Imageryfolder in the asset navigation tree.

Right-click ImageryMosaic, and select Build from the context menu.
Google Earth Enterprise Fusion builds the resource.  Building this
resource may take several minutes, since it contains four images.

When the status of the resource changes to Succeeded in the Asset
Manager, drag it to the Preview List pane.

Check the box next to ImageryMosaic in the Preview List pane, and then
right-click it and select Zoom to Layer from the context menu.  The
grayscale image of San Francisco appears in the Preview pane,
surrounded by a bounding box. This is the single mosaic resource
created from four separate source files.  Grayscale Image of San
Francisco

Notice the black border and uneven edges of the mosaic. These are
called

fill pixels

. The fill pixels fill the frame around the imagery where its borders
are uneven.

If you want to add more imagery around this image and have all of the
imagery blend together seamlessly, you need to

mask

 the fill pixels. Masking blocks the pixels that you do not want users
to see. The auto mask feature in Google Earth Enterprise Fusion does a
very good job of creating masks for most situations. The

Google Earth Enterprise Fusion Reference Guide

 provides instructions for doing so.

In some cases, however, you might want to use a custom mask that you
create outside of Google Earth Enterprise Fusion so you have more
control over the pixels that are blocked and the pixels that are
allowed to show through. However, since Google Earth Enterprise Fusion
allows you to use custom masks with resources that include a single
source file only, you cannot apply a custom mask to a resource that
includes more than one source file.

There is a way to resolve this problem. You can create a

virtual mosaic

 and apply your custom mask to it. A virtual mosaic is a single source
file created from multiple source files. The following exercises walk
you through the process of creating a virtual mosaic and applying a
custom mask to it.

-[ Create a Virtual Mosaic ]-

If you have multiple source files that you want to combine into a
single resource to which you want to apply a custom mask, you can
create a virtual mosaic using command line tools and then apply the
custom mask within the GUI.

-[ To create a virtual mosaic: ]-

At the command prompt, change to the folder that contains the imagery
source files by entering:  cd
/opt/google/share/tutorials/fusion/Imagery/SF_grayscale/SFnorth

Change the permissions to read/write for the directory and files that
you are using to create the virtual mosaic:  chmod 777
/path/mydirectory  chmod 777
/opt/google/share/tutorials/fusion/Imagery/SF_grayscale/SFnorth/*

Create a virtual raster file by entering (all on one line):
gevirtualraster --fill 0,0,0 -o path/all_files.khvr *.tif  where path
is the path to the folder where you want to save the resulting .khvr
file.  The gevirtualraster command specifies the fill value to be used
for the mosaic (0,0,0 = black), the name of the file to be generated
(all_files.khvr), and includes all of the .tif files in the specified
folder as input.

Change to the folder where you stored the all_files.khvr file (the
value of path in step 2) by entering:  cd path

Enter the following command to be sure the file was created
successfully:  ls a*  The file all_files.khvr should be listed.

Change the permissions for the newly created all_files.khvr file:
sudo chmod 777 all_files.khvr

Preview the new virtual mosaic:  In the Google Earth Enterprise Fusion
GUI, click Open File Icon.  The Open dialog appears.  Navigate to the
path folder.  Select all_files.khvr, and click OK.  Two entries appear
in the Preview List pane: all_files:0 and all_files:1. (If Imagery
Mosaic is still listed, you can leave the box next to it checked.)
When you check the box next to all_files:0, a bounding box indicates
the position of the entire virtual mosaic. When you check the box next
to all_files:1, four bounding boxes indicate the position of each of
the individual source files.  Because you have not yet built this
resource, only the bounding boxes appear, not the actual imagery.

You can check and uncheck the boxes to see the different views. When
you finish, right-click any layer in the Preview List pane, and select
Remove All Layers from the context menu. A message prompts you to
confirm that you want to remove all layers from the Preview panes.

Click OK. All of the layers disappear from the Preview panes.

Back at the command prompt, enter the following command:  cp
/opt/google/share/tutorials/fusion/Imagery/SF_grayscale/all_files-
mask.tif path  This command copies the mask file provided with the
tutorial data into the same folder as all_files.khvr you created in
step 3.

Change to the path folder, if necessary, and enter the following
command:  ls a*  Both files, all_files.khvr and all_files-mask.tif,
should be listed.

The mask for your input must be located in the same folder as the
source file, and the file name must match the name of the source file
with "-mask" appended. In this case, the mask file is named
"all_files-mask.tif". When you select

Have Mask

 in the Imagery Resource Editor in the next exercise, Google Earth
Enterprise Fusion automatically applies the mask file by reference to
the source file.

-[ Apply a Custom Mask to the Virtual Mosaic ]-

Now that you have a virtual mosaic and a custom mask for it, you can
import the virtual mosaic into a resource and apply the mask. This
exercise guides you through that process.

-[ To apply a custom mask to the virtual mosaic: ]-

Select Asset Manager from the Tools menu. The Asset Manager appears.

Click Imagery Resource Editor Icon on the toolbar. The Imagery
Resource Editor appears.  Imagery Resource Editor

Set the Acquisition Date to today’s date in year-month-day format by
clicking each section of the date and enter the values.

Select USGS Imagery from the Provider drop-down list.

Set the Mask Type (under Mask Options) to Have Mask.

Click Add. The Open Source dialog appears.

Navigate to the pathfolder.

Select all_files.khvr, and click Open. The selected file appears on
the Source File(s) list.

Select File > Save.

Navigate to the /ASSET_ROOT/Resources/Imagery folder you created in
Setting Up the Tutorial.

Enter the name VirtualMosaic for the resource, and click Save. The
name of the resource appears on the right when you select the
/ASSET_ROOT/Resources/Imageryfolder in the asset navigation tree.

Right-click VirtualMosaic, and select Build from the context menu.
Google Earth Enterprise Fusion builds the resource.  Building this
resource may take several minutes.

When the status of the resource changes to Succeeded in the Asset
Manager, drag it to the Preview List pane.

Check the box next to VirtualMosaic in the Preview List pane, and then
right-click it and select Zoom to Layer from the context menu.  The
grayscale image of San Francisco appears in the Preview pane,
surrounded by a bounding box. This is the mosaic created from four
separate tiles.  Notice that the black border and uneven edges of the
mosaic are gone. The mask has done its job.
