
Configure Tutorial Workspace

To accommodate users who are working through the tutorial at the same
time as other users (or even those same users) are working on
production data, Google recommends that you configure a tutorial
workspace on each workstation where you install the tutorial data.
That way, you can keep the tutorial source volume and asset root
separate from your production source volume(s) and asset root.

This article describes how to configure the tutorial workspace and how
to switch back and forth between the tutorial asset root and the
production asset root. You will also learn how to clean up the
tutorial files when they are no longer needed.

Download the Tutorial Source Files

Configure the tutorial asset root and source volume

Select the tutorial asset root

Clean up the tutorial workspace

-[ Download the Tutorial Source Files ]-

The tutorial source files are available in the following archives. It
can be downloaded all together, or for convenience it can be
downloaded in two parts.

FusionTutorial-Full.tar.gz - Contains all the source data needed to
complete the tutorial - 600 MB

FusionTutorial-NoMosaicImagery.tar.gz - Contains all the source data
needed to complete the tutorial, except for the Mosaic section - 282
MB

Once the source files are downloaded, as root, create the
"/opt/google/share/tutorials/fusion" directory if it doesn't exist.
Extract each archive downloaded to that location. Be sure all the
files have read permission for all users and directories have read and
execute permission for all users.

Note: Due to a bug in the current Google Earth Enterprise Open
  Source version, vector source files also need the write permission.

-[ Configuring the tutorial asset root and source volume ]-

When you install Google Earth Enterprise, you configure a source
volume and asset root for your production data. If you accepted the
default values, they are "/gevol/src" and "/gevol/assets",
respectively.

The installation script installs the tutorial files in
"/opt/google/share/tutorials/fusion", so you must add that path as the
source volume for the tutorial. In addition, Google recommends that
you add a tutorial asset root for users to store the data they create
with Google Earth Enterprise Fusion while working through the
tutorial.

The following procedure describes how to configure an asset root and
the tutorial source volume for each tutorial user. You must configure
them for

each

 user on

each

 workstation where you install the Google Earth Enterprise Fusion
tutorial files.

-[ To configure a tutorial asset root and source volume: ]-

On the command line, log in as root.

Stop the system manager by entering:  /etc/init.d/gefusion stop

Enter:  geconfigureassetroot --new --assetroot --chown
/username/assets  where username is the name of the user.  The
username does not have to be the user’s official account name. It can
be anything that distinguishes that user from other users on that
particular workstation, such as edaniels or just Emily.  Google
recommends that you place the tutorial asset root on the same
partition as the publish root, so the publisher uses hard links
instead of making copies of the tutorial databases.  If you place the
tutorial asset root on the root partition, ensure that there is enough
disk space for the data created by each user working through the
tutorial. If a user completes all lessons in the tutorial, allow 1.5
GB of disk space.  The tool asks if you want to create a new source
volume.

Enter Y, and press Enter.  You are prompted to enter a directory for
the source volume.

Enter /opt/google/share/tutorials/fusion, and press Enter.  The tool
asks if you want to add more volumes.

If you want to create tutorial workspaces for more users, enter Y,
press Enter, and repeat steps 3 through 5. If not, skip this step.
Otherwise, enter N, and press Enter.  The tool displays the message
“Configured /username/assets” and returns you to the command line
prompt.

Log out as root.

Start the system manager by entering:  /etc/init.d/gefusion start  The
new source volume and asset root are automatically selected for you.
You do not have to run the geselectassetroot command. (See the next
section, Select the Tutorial Asset Root, for more information about
selecting different asset roots.)

-[ Select the tutorial asset root ]-

There are two occasions when users must select a different asset root:

When multiple users share a single workstation, each user must select
his or her own tutorial asset root.

When a user switches from the tutorial data to real production data,
he or she must select the appropriate asset root.

This section explains how to select a different asset root.

Caution:

 Note that even though your source volumes and asset roots are
separate for each user or for the tutorial and production data, there
is only one publish root on each virtual server for Earth databases
and one for Map databases.

When two users are sharing a single workstation, they are both
publishing to the same publish root. When one user publishes a
database on that workstation, it overwrites any database published
previously by another user on that same workstation. Likewise, if a
user is switching back and forth between tutorial and production data
on the same workstation, it is possible to overwrite a production
database with a tutorial database and vice versa. Of course, the user
can simply republish the desired database to make it available to
Google Earth EC again.

-[ To select the tutorial asset root: ]-

On the command line, log in as root.

Stop the system manager by entering:  /etc/init.d/gefusion stop

Enter:  geselectassetroot --assetroot /username/assets  where username
is the name you used in step 3 of Configuring the tutorial asset root
and source volume.

Log out as root.

Start the system manager by entering:  /etc/init.d/gefusion start

-[ Clean up the tutorial workspace ]-

When a user completes the tutorial or no longer needs the tutorial
data, you can clean up that tutorial workspace, if desired, by
removing the tutorial source files, asset root, and published
databases. This section describes the best way to perform that
cleanup.

Note: Google recommends that you keep the tutorial files intact,
  since they use very little space and can come in handy for users to
  practice, even after they have quite a bit of experience with Google
  Earth Enterprise Fusion.

-[ To remove the tutorial source files, asset root, and databases: ]-

At the command line prompt, log in as root.

Stop the system manager by entering:  /etc/init.d/gefusion stop

Select the production asset root by entering:  geselectassetroot
--assetroot /gevol/assets  Substitute the appropriate asset root path,
if necessary.

Stop the Google Earth Enterprise Server:  /etc/init.d/geserver stop

Delete the tutorial files:  rm -Rf /opt/google/share/tutorials/fusion/

Delete the user’s tutorial asset root by entering:  rm -Rf
/username/assets  where username is the name of the user you specified
when you configured the tutorial workspace.  Make sure you are
removing the tutorial asset root, not the production root. If you
delete the production root, there is no way to recover it (other than
from backups, if available).

Start the Google Earth Enterprise Fusion system manager and Google
Earth Enterprise Server:  /etc/init.d/gefusion start
/etc/init.d/geserver start  The order in which you start them does not
matter.

List the databases on the current server by entering:  geserveradmin
--listdbs  The tool displays a list of all databases ever published
(other than deleted databases) on the server. If the server type is
omitted, the server type defaults to stream.

Select the database you want to remove by entering:  geserveradmin
--deletedb db_name...  where db_name is the name of the database you
want to delete.  If you want to delete a currently published database,
you can either publish a different database to the same virtual server
or disable the virtual server on which it is published. Then you can
delete the database.  This tool does not delete the actual files. It
is similar to putting files in the trash on a Windows or Mac desktop.

Permanently delete the selected databases by entering:  geserveradmin
--garbagecollect
