
Release notes: Open GEE 5.3.2

-[ New Features ]-

Documentation overhaul

. All documentation was migrated to Sphinx format, making it easier to
edit and maintain. User documentation file names were also migrated
from number-based naming convention to self-explanatory descriptive
titles. New documentation format also offers a search capability that
was not possible before.

KML validation in cutter

. Basic validation is now performed on KML that is pasted into the
cutter tool.

Memory and performance improvements

. This version of Open GEE includes several optimizations for
performance and memory utilization.

Multithreaded builds

. Parts of imagery project builds can now run on multiple threads. See

Configure Fusion performance

.

Improved resume operation

. The resume operation has been rewritten to improve performance. See

Configure Fusion performance

.

Specify cache sizes in bytes

. The sizes of the asset and asset version caches can now be specified
in bytes. See

Configure Fusion performance

.

-[ Supported Platforms ]-

The Open GEE 5.3.2 release is supported on 64-bit versions of the
following operating systems:

Red Hat Enterprise Linux version 6.x and 7.x, including the most
recent security patches

CentOS 6.x and 7.x

Ubuntu 16.04 LTS

Ubuntu 14.04 will no longer be supported due to its recent end of
life.

Google Earth Enterprise 5.3.2 is compatible with Google Earth
Enterprise Client (EC) version 7.1.5 and above.

-[ Updated Libraries ]-

Open GEE 5.3.2 includes some library updates:

    Library  Version  Apache  2.4  PostgreSQL  9.6.15  PostGIS  2.3.9

To upgrade from Open GEE 5.2.0, do NOT uninstall it. We recommend that
you upgrade Open GEE 5.2.0 by simply installing Open GEE 5.3.2.
Installing Open GEE 5.3.2 on top of Open GEE 5.2.0 will ensure that
your PostgreSQL databases are backed up and upgraded correctly to the
new PostgreSQL version used by Open GEE 5.3.2.

-[ Resolved Issues ]-

      Number  Description  Resolution  1132  GEE Server doesn't always
determine the correct hostname  Updated the virtual hosts URL to use
hostname if getfqdn() doesn't return a good hostname. Also added
documentation for setting up the system to aid in avoiding this
problem.  1281  Quitting 32-bit Windows portable server in Windows 7
via Internet Explorer does not work  IE appears to perform aggressive
caching, which was preventing the GET request to cmd=quit from making
it to the server. Changing the command to be a POST request prevents
this.  1376  Portable Globe Cutter fails the last step when using
HTTPS  Used the advanced configuration to set a URL that will be used
when cutter tries to make an openurl call.  1398  System Manager crash
Fixed the crash's underlying cause.  1401  No notification when System
Manager Asset Cache size is exceeded causing performance issues  Added
a logging record when System Manager Asset Cache size is exceeded.
1404  WMS fails when using HTTPS  Skipped the internal Certificate
Verification.  1420  Build should honor JAVA_HOME when creating rpm
packages  Honored JAVA_HOME  1447  Compiling error when using scons
cache  Fixed compiling error when using scons cache

-[ Known Issues ]-

      Number  Description  Resolution  4  Google basemap fails to load
in 2D Mercator Maps  Obtain a valid Google Maps API key and include it
in /opt/google/gehttpd/htdocs/maps/maps_google.html.  8  Ensure GEE
Portable Cutter Job Completes  No current work around.  9  Improve
FileUnpacker Handling of Invalid Files  No current work around.  20
Simplify build process for portable builds on MacOS  Building and
running Portable Server on MacOS should be possible with minimal
changes.  34  Scons build creates temporary directories named “0”  No
current work around.  126  The Fusion installer creates a backup on
the first run  No current work around. The created backup can be
deleted.  190  Hostname mismatch check in installers doesn't work as
expected  No current work around.  193  Updated docs are not copied if
the /tmp/fusion_os_install directory already exists  Delete
/tmp/fusion_os_install at the beginning of the stage_install build
process.  201  Some tiles are displayed incorrectly in the Enterprise
Client when terrain is enabled  No current work around.  202  Icons
are not displayed on vector layers in the Enterprise Client  No
current work around. It is not clear if this is an error in GEE or in
the Enterprise Client.  203  Some vector layer options are not saved
No current work around.  221  The asset manager may display that a job
is "Queued" when in fact the job is "Blocked"  No current work around.
234  Geserver raises error executing apache_logs.pyc  No current work
around.  254  Automasking fails for images stored with UTM projection
Use GDAL to convert the images to a different projection before
ingesting them into Fusion.  269  gevectorimport doesn't crop features
Use GDAL/OGR to crop vector dataset before importing them using
Fusion.  295  Fix buffer overflows and leaks in unit tests  No current
work around.  309  Check for the FusionConnection before new asset is
populated  Make sure that gefusion service is started.  320  The
Portable Server web page uses obsolete REST calls  Do not use the
buttons on the Portable Server web interface for adding remote servers
or broadcasting to remote servers as these features are no longer
supported.  326  Libraries may be loaded from the wrong directory
Delete any library versions that should not be loaded or use
LD_LIBRARY_PATH to load libraries from /opt/google/lib.  340  GE
Fusion Terrain is black  No current work around.  342  Fusion crashes
when opening an unsupported file type  Re-open Fusion and avoid
opening unsupported file types.  343  gefusion: File
->open->*.kiasset*,*.ktasset*,*.kip does not work  kip is not a
supported format. Void opening files with .kip extension.  380
Provider field in resource-view is blank  Open the individual resource
to see the provider.  401  GEE commands are not in the path for sudo.
Specify the full path when running commands or add /opt/google/bin to
the path for all users, including the super user.  402  Provider
manager window locked to main window.  No current work around.  403
Missing Close button on system manager window in RHEL 7  Right-click
the title bar and select Close.  404  Opaque polygons in preview.  No
current work around.  405  Vector layer preview not cleared in some
situations  Reset the preview window to the correct state by either
clicking on it or previewing another vector layer.  407  Corrupt data
warning when starting Fusion  No current work around but Fusion loads
and runs correctly.  419  Fix Fusion Graphics Acceleration in Ubuntu
14 Docker Container Hosted on Ubuntu 16  No current work around.  437
Rebooting VM while it is building resources results in a corrupted XML
No current work around.  439  Uninstalling Fusion without stopping it
results in unexpected error message  Ignore that error message.  440
Fuzzy imagery in historical imagery tests.  No current work around.
442  Multiple database pushes after upgrade don't report a warning  No
current work around.  444  Fusion installer does not upgrade the asset
root on RHEL 7  Upgrade the asset root manually by running the command
that is printed when you try to start the Fusion service.  445  Path
to tutorial source volume in gee_test instructions is different from
path used in installers  Use /opt/google/share/tutorials.  448  Out of
Memory issues  Use a system that has more than 4GB RAM.  453  Improve
`check_server_processes_running` detection for uninstall  No current
work around.  456  Inconsistent behavior of vector layers after
upgrade  No current work around.  460  Possibility of seg fault in
QDateWrapper  No current work around.  474  Running gee_check on some
supported platforms reports that the platform is not supported  You
can ignore the failed test if using a supported platform (Ubuntu
14.04, Ubuntu 16.04, RHEL 7, and CentOS 7).  477  'service geserver
stop/start/restart' doesn't work on Ubuntu 16.04 without a reboot
Reboot and try again.  487  gdal - python utilities do not recognize
osgeo module  Install python-gdal.  507  Volume host is reported
unavailable if `hostname` doesn't match volume host  Set the host
values in /gevol/assets/.config/volumes.xml to the FQDN and restart
the Fusion service.  557  WMS service problem with 'width' & 'height'
& 'bbox'  No current work around.  569  geserver service installation
and uninstallation issues  Before uninstalling geserver verify if it's
running or not.  590  Maps API Javascript Files Not Found  No current
work around.  594  Save errors only reported for the first image
Close the form in question and try again.  640  Save button disabled
in 'Map Layer' creation dialog when an error encountered  Close the
resource form and open it again to make the save option available
again.  651  Release executables and libraries depend on gtest  Follow
current build instructions that requires gtest to be installed.  669
Missing repo in RHEL 7 build instructions  Enable rhel-7-server-
optional-rpms and rhel-7-server-optional-source-rpms repos.  686
Scons fails to detect libpng library on CentOS 6  Ensure that a
default g++ compiler is installed.  700  Add EL6/EL7 check to RPMs
Make sure that RPMS are installed on same EL version that they were
produced for.  788  Search fails after transferring and publishing a
database using disconnected send from the command line  Re-publish the
database from the web interface.  825  Geserver fails to startup fully
due to conflicting protobuf library  Run pip uninstall protobuf to
uninstall the protobuf library installed by pip.
